References

[At] M. Atiyah. Geometry and Physics of the 20th Century. In: [GeoXX], pp. 4-9.

[B-BH]B. Βοοβ-Bavnbek, J. Шугир. Introduction. In: [MW], pp. 1-19.

[Bour] N. Bourbaki. Elements of the History of Mathematics. Springer-Verlag, Heidelberg,1994.

[CaBa] M. Li Calzi, A. Basile. Economists and Mathematics from 14a4 t° 1969. Beyond theArt of Accounting. In: [MC], pp. 95-107.

[Ce] F. Cesi. II natural desiderio di sapere. The Pontifical Academy of Sciences, Vatican,2003.

[Cha] Yu. V. Chaikovski. What is probability? (Evolution of the notion from antiquityto Poisson). In: Istoriko-Mathematicheskie Issledovaniya (Studies in the History ofMathematics), ser. 2, 6(41), Moscow 2001, pp. 34-56. (Russian)

[Che] K. Chemla. History of Mathematics in China: A Factor in World History and aSource for New Questions. In: Proceedings Intern. Congress of Mathematicians,Berlin 1998, vol. Ill, pp. 789-798. Documenta Mathematica, Bielefeld, 1998.

[CVS] The Cultural Values of Science. Proceedings of the plenary session of the PontificalAcademy of Sciences, Nov. 8-11 2002. Vatican, 2003.

[DaOl] H. G. Dales, G. Oliveri. Truth and the foundations of mathematics. An introduction.In: [Tr], pp. 1-37.

[DH] P. Davis, R. Hersh. The Mathematical Experience. Birkhauser, Boston, 1980.H. M. 

[Ens] Enszenberger. Drawbridge Up. Mathematics—a Cultural Anathema. A. K.Peters, Natick, Mass., 1999.

[GeoXX]Geometrie au XXe Steele. Histoire et Horizons. J. Kouneiher, D. Flament, Ph. Nabon-nand, J.-J. Szczeciniarz (eds.) Hermann, Paris, 2005.

[KGSIPW] V. Keilis-Borok, D. Gascon, A. Soloviev, M. Intriligator, R.Pichardo, F. Winberg. Onthe predictability of crime waves in megacities - extended summary. In: [CVS], pp.221-229.I. 

[KoMa] Yu. Kobzarev, Yu. I. Manin. Elementary Particles. Mathematics, Physics andPhilosophy. Kluwer, Dordrecht, 1989.

[MAC] Mathematics Across Cultures. The history of Non-Western Mathematics. H. Selin(ed.), Kluwer, Dordrecht, 2000.N. Macrae. John von Neumann. Amer. Math. Soc, Providence, RI, 1999.

[Macr] Yu. Manin. Truth, rigor and common sense. In: [Tr], pp. 147-159.

[Manl] Yu. Manin. Mathematics as metaphor. In: Proc. International Congress ofMathematicians (Kyoto 1990), vol. II, Math. Soc. of Japan, Tokyo, 1991, pp. 1665-1671.

[Man2] Yu. Manin. Georg Cantor and his heritage. In: Algebraic Geometry: Methods,Relations, and Applications: Collected papers dedicated to the memory of Andrei Nikolae-vich Tyurin. Proc. Steklov Inst. Math. vol. 246, MAIK Nauka/Interperiodica, Moscow,2004, pp. 195-203. Preprint math.AG/0209244.
[Man3]

[MandHu] B. Mandelbrot, R. Hudson. The (Mis)behaviour of Markets. Profile, 2005. 328 pp.

[MC] Mathematics and Culture I. Ed. by M. Emmer. Springer 2004.

[Mul] D. Mumford. The dawning of the age of stochasticity. In: Mathematics: Frontiersand Perspectives, ed. by V. Arnold, M. Atiyah, P. Lax and B. Mazur. AMS, 2000, pp.197-218.

[Mu2] D. Mumford. Pattern Theory: the Mathemaics of Perception. In: Proceedings of theInt. Congr. of Mathematicians, Beijing 2002, vol. I, pp. 401-422. Higher EducationPress, Beijing, 2002.

[MW] Mathematics and War. Ed. by B. Βοοβ-Bavnbek, J. Hoyrup. Birkhauser Verlag, Basel,2003.

[Neu] J. von Neumann. Selected Letters, ed. by M. Redei. History of Math., vol 27, AMSand London MS, 2005.

[New] J. R. Newman. The Rhind Papyrus. In: [WM], vol. 1, pp. 170 - 178.

[N0]  T. Norretranders. The User Illusion: Cutting Conscioussness Down to Size. Penguin,1998.

[PI] Plato. Republic, Book VII. 522d, 525c, 526 b-d .

[Pol]  M. Poovey. A History of the Modern Fact. Problem of Knowledge in the Sciences ofWealth and Society. The University of Chicago Press, 1998.

[Po2] M. Poovey. Can numbers ensure honesty? Unrealistic expectations and the USaccounting scandal. Notices Amer. Math. Soc, vol. 50:1, Jan. 2003, pp. 27-35.

[Qu] Anjing Qu. The third approach to the history of mathematics in China. In:Proceedings of the Int. Congr. of Mathematicians, Beijing 2002, vol. Ill, pp. 947-958. HigherEducation Press, Beijing, 2002.

[Sci] Bourbaki. Une sociite secrete de mathematiciens. Pour la Science, No 2, 2000; EnglishTransl., Amer. Math. Soc, Providence, RI, 2006.

[S-S] R. Siegmund-Schultze. Military Work in Mathematics 1914-19J.5: an Attempt at anInternational Perspective. In: [MW], pp. 23-82.

[Sol] R. Solow. How did economics get that way and what way did it get? Daedalus, Fall2005, pp. 87-100.

[So] S. Sontag. Illness as Metaphor, and AIDS and its Metaphors. Picador; Farrar, Straussand Giroux, NY 1990.

[Tr] Truth in Mathematics. Ed. by H. G. Dales and G. Oliveri. Clarendon Press, Oxford,1998.

[Tu] H. W. Turnbull. The great mathematicians. In: [WM], vol. 1, pp. 75-168.

[WM] The World of Mathematics. A small library of the literature of mathematics fromA'h-mose the Scribe to Albert Einstein, presented with commentaries and notes byJames R. Newman. Vols 1-3. Simon and Schuster, New York, 1956.



